So the ledger contains a record
of all Bitcoin transactions.
So it's a memory system, and
in fact this equivalence between money and
memory was proposed by the macro-economist
Narayana Kocherlakota back in 1998.
And his point is that money and
memory are the same.
If you had perfect memory,
you could implement any system that
you could implement with money.
So, along with the digital signature,
the accurate ledger is required for
the existence of property
rights in Bitcoin.
Now, credit card companies, banks, and
other intermediaries
essentially are ledgers.
And they enforce the accuracy of the
ledger and hence enable property rights.
And it's in their interest to
enforce the accuracy of the ledger,
but Bitcoin is decentralized.
So who is the keeper of
this collective memory, and
who ensures that it is accurate?
So in his Bitcoin whitepaper,
Satoshi Nakamoto realizes the problem with
previous decentralized ledgers and
proposes a solution.
In previous attempts to decentralize,
creators focused on making it
impossible to tamper with the ledger.
Now this is really hard because
the ledger is decentralized,
it's on everybody's computer.
So how are you going to
make it tamper proof?
What Satoshi realized is that it was
sufficient to have incentives not to
tamper with the ledger.
And it was potentially much
easier to create incentives not
the tamper than to
forbid tampering per se.
And I think this is a nice
example of how from the very
beginning Bitcoin combined computer
science with economic reasoning.
So how to dis-incentivize participants
from tampering with the ledger?
Well, the answer is,
we make it easy to detect that
the ledger had been tampered with.
And thus any dishonest participant
would be dissuaded from even trying.
So, not only would any
attempt be detected,
there would actually be no attempts.
Of course,
we wouldn't want to get complacent.
The absence of attempts would not mean
that the detection system was unnecessary.
So tampering with the ledger in Bitcoin
is what in economics we call a, quote,
off the equilibrium path.
Nobody's going to do it, but
we still need to design incentives, so
that it remains off the equilibrium,
as in not equilibrium behavior.
So let's consider an example
of how we make it observable
that the ledger has been tampered with.
So I'm going to write down
a very simple ledger, so
let's say Maria creates a simple coin,
we'll call it MariaCoin.
And Maria is just going
to have this one coin and
she's going to use it for her friends.
We aren't going to discuss why this
would be useful at the moment,
let's just assume it exists.
So Maria creates MariaCoin.
Then Maria sells MariaCoin to Sophie,
presumably Sophie gives Maria some money,
dollars perhaps, in exchange.
Then Sophie turns around and
sells the MariaCoin to Geoff.
So from this description,
it is clear that, at the end,
Geoff is the rightful
owner of the MariaCoin.
But here's the problem, what if Bob,
say, were to come in and
attempt to change the second stage?
What if that second item were,
say, erased and
rewritten to read that Maria sells
MariaCoin to Bob, not Sophie?
So that would invalidate Sophie's
ownership and Geoff's ownership,
because Sophie had no
right to sell it to Geoff.
So we do not want this to happen, so
not only do we need to detect tampering at
the last stage, but
at the intermediate stages as well.
So here's the solution,
we make the ledger recursive.
So Maria creates a single MariaCoin,
the second stage,
Mario sells the MariaCoin to Sophie.
Now what I've done here is I've upended
the initials of the previous transactions,
transaction MCSM.
So think of that as kind of a digest
of the previous transaction.
Now the third stage is Sophie
sells the MariaCoin to Geoff.
So what I do now is I not only have
the digest from the previous stage,
but the first digest as well.
So MSMS is Maria sells
the MariaCoin to Sophie,
and then you also have within that digest,
MCSM,
Maria creates a single MariaCoin.
And then finally we digest
the whole thing, we have SSMG,
so if he sells the MariaCoin to Geoff.
And then the other previous two entries
are also embedded in that last digest.
So to summarize, alongside each entry,
I have put a digest,
a kind of shorthand to the previous entry.
In creating this shorthand,
I followed a simple algorithm,
I used the first letter
of each of the words.
Now in principle, we could use
this to detect tampering, right?
Because what we could do is we could
check if the initials match the words in
the previous step.
So let's just see an example
of how this would work.
Let's say Bob were to tamper with
the second item on the ledger.
Instead of reading,
Maria sells the MariaCoin to Sophie,
he tampers with it to read,
Maria sells the MariaCoin to Bob.
Well, at that point,
the digest would not match,
MSMS at the next stage would
not be the right initials.
So you could detect the tampering
by comparing the second stage
with the digest that appears at
the second and the third stage.
Now of course,
if Bob were really determined,
he could tamper with a digest
that appears in the third stage.
He could tamper both with item two, having
it read, Maria sells the MariaCoin to Bob.
And he could then take MSMS and
change it to the appropriate initials.
However, then the overall digest would
not match the stage three message.
So in order to truly tamper with
the ledger in a way that could not
be detected, Bob would have to first
tamper with the entry at stage two.
Then the digest at stage three,
then digest of the digest at stage four.
Now in this example, this digest
technique is pretty easy to work around.
All Bob would have to do would be to find
a friend whose name begins with an S.
And he could then tamper with it and
give the money to his friend,
but this really is the idea
that Bitcoin uses.
But there's a crucial difference,
the digest that I've created here
is created using cryptography, not, say,
just the first initial of the names.
And what that means is it's virtually
impossible to change the transaction in
such a way that it still
matches the digest.
So to summarize,
along with the digital signature,
a tamper-proof ledger is a key feature of
Bitcoin that enforces property rights.
Now, how do you make a ledger
tamper-proof when it is distributed?
Answer, you make sure any
attempts will be discovered.
So how do you do that?
By making the ledger recursive,
every entry contains a little
copy of the previous entry.